---
title: OAuth Authorization
---

In some cases, your applications need to read the profile, assets, snapshots, and other data of Messenger users, so you need to use the [OAuth 2.0](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749) protocol to authenticate users.

### Request to Authorization

When the bot detects that it is not authorized by a user, it should jump to following url to request authorization from the user:

```
https://mixin.one/oauth/authorize?client_id=CLIENT_ID&scope=SCOPE&response_type=code&return_to=
```

In which the parameters are:

**Required Parameters**

- **client_id** - The application's client_id, you can get it from the keystore that previous article has mentioned.
- **scope** - Requested permissions, please refer to the [this document](/docs/api/oauth/scope/) for more details. It should contain at least the `PROFILE:READ` permission.
- **response_type** - Use `code` to return authorization code

**Optional Parameters**

- **state** - A random string generated by your application, which you’ll verify later.
- **code_challenge** - The code challenge generated by your app, it's a SHA256 hash of your code verifier. For more information about it, please [visit here](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/authorization-request/)
- **code_challenge_method** - The code challenge method, please set it to `SHA256`

:::tip
Users may uncheck certain permissions when authorizing.
It is recommended that developers only apply for necessary permissions and make proper guidance GUIs in the absence of permissions.
:::

## Exchange Authorization Code for Access Token

After successful authorization, the page will automatically jump to the application's `OAuth URL`, which will be accompanied by the authorization code and return_to parameters:

```
YOUR_APP_OAUTH_URL?code=AUTHORIZATION_CODE&return_to=YOUR_APP_RETURN_URL
```

The developer need to read the `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` and exchange the access token with it:

```
POST https://api.mixin.one/oauth/token
```

```json title="Payload"
{
    "client_id":    "application's client_id from keystore",
    "code":         "AUTHORIZATION_CODE in the callback URL",
    "client_secret":"the `app secret` that generated in the previous article"
}
```

```json title="Response"
{
    "access_token": "user's authorization token",
    "scope":        "list of permissions that the user has given, e.g. 'PROFILE:READ ASSETS:READ'"
}
```

:::tip
It is recommended that developers cache the access token and subsequently call the API to access the user data via the access token, to determine whether the user has authorized or not.
:::

