---
title: OAuth Authorization
sidebar_position: 2
---

import {
  APIMetaPanel,
  APIRequest,
  APIEndpoint,
  APIParams,
  APIPayload,
} from "@site/src/components/api";

Bot can only access limited information of users.
To access the profiles, assets, and other data of Mixin Messenger users, the developer needs to apply for authorization from the user.

## Requesting Authorization

```sass
GET https://www.mixin.one/oauth/authorize?client_id=CLIENT_ID&scope=PROFILE:READ+ASSETS:READ&response_type=code&return_to=
```

<APIParams
  p-client_id="Application client_id"
  p-client_id-required={true}
  p-scope="Requested permissions"
  p-scope-required={true}
  p-response_type="Use `code` to return authorization code"
  p-response_type-required={true}
  p-state="A random string generated by your application, which you’ll verify later."
/>

`state` parameter is optional and could enhance security with PKCE, details in <https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/authorization-request>.

<APIParams
p-client_id="Application client_id"
p-client_id-required={true}
p-scope="Requested permissions"
p-scope-required={true}
p-response_type="Use `code` to return authorization code"
p-response_type-required={true}
p-state="A random string generated by your application, which you’ll verify later."
p-code_challenge="The code challenge generated by your app, it's a SHA256 hash of your code verifier. For more information about it, please https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/authorization-request"
p-code_challenge_method="The code challenge method, please set it to `SHA256`"
/>

## Get Access Token

After successful authorization, the page will automatically jump to the application's OAuth URL. 
The callback URL will be accompanied by the authorization code, 
and the developer would then request other information to sign.

### POST /oauth/token

Get the information that OAuth signature would need.

<APIEndpoint url="/oauth/token" />

<APIPayload>{`{
  "client_id":      "user's client_id",
  "code":           "authorization code returned by the successful authorization callback",
  "client_secret":  "application's app secret"
  "code_verifier":  "",
  "ed25519":        "ed25519 random public key, client need to save the private key to sign message"
}
`}</APIPayload>

<APIRequest
  title="Get access token"
  method="POST"
  isPublic
  url="/oauth/token --data PAYLOAD"
/>

```json title="Response"
{
  "ed25519":        "ed25519 random public key of server",
  "authorization_id": "id of user authorization",
  "scope": "list of permissions that the user has given, e.g. 'PROFILE:READ ASSETS:READ'"
}
```

## Revoking Authorization

Since Users can revoke authorization in Mixin Messenger Settings, or the authorization will expire after a year. Developers should process the expired token.
